The Seed of Self

By 

Jeffery Lovely






















TABLE OF CONTENTS


INTRODUCTION: 	The Expansion Principle – The Geometry of Life

Chapter One - 		The ‘Body’ Aspect

Chapter Two - 		The 'Me' Aspect

Chapter Three - 	 The 'You' Aspect

Chapter Four - 		The 'I AM' Aspect

Chapter Five - 		The ‘We’ Aspect

Chapter Six - 		The ‘Eternal’ Aspect

Chapter Seven - 	The 'Universal' Aspect




Intro: The Expansion Principle

The purpose of life is expansion. 
Physically the space of reality, our universe, has been in a constant state of expansion since what is known as the big bang.  There is more space in the universe than we can presently observe as this physical expansion is happening faster than light can travel. 
On a personal level, our body emerges from a single egg and sperm, expanding to the more than 100 trillion cells that make up our body. Once fully formed, our physical bodies continue to expand in the recreation of every cell in our body. 
Our Mind emerges and expands from our first conscious thought. From that initial thought, a never-ending expansion of conscious awareness has streamed forth until this moment. 
Our feelings and emotions expand not only in quantity but in complexity with every passing moment and experience. 
Speaking of moments -- time keeps expanding too. At this and every moment, we are older than we have ever been and as much as we complain that we don't have enough of it, time continues to expand for all those reading these words.
From the moment we are placed in our mother's arms out of the womb, we meet another person for the first time, and there begins an ever-expanding collection of relationships with others, from our most intimate to our most casual. 
Even when we desire to 'reduce' something, we are simply shifting the desired focus of what we are expanding. A good example of this is when you make a decision to cut back an expense in favor of having more savings.
This key understanding reveals a fundamental aspect not only written into nature but consciousness itself.  The ability to shift the focus of expansion reveals the truth that in life, energy follows focus into form. Expansion is synonymous with life itself, and the understanding of this frees us to look at what directs the focus of our expansion. 
We are directing the focus of our individual expansion and experience. But what drives our focus and WHY? What makes us up? What is Consciousness? 
To answer the question, we must define not only who we are but also the parameters for awareness itself.  We must discover the design of consciousness if we want to better understand it. But where do we look?
As mankind is a part of the Earth and the natural world, we can look for patterns in nature to better understand consciousness and our self.  
When we look deeply into nature, we see that there is a foundation at the basis of all reality. We discover that there exists a secret code-- a geometric blueprint that forms the matrix of all of creation. This pattern is not only the foundation for the outside world, it is also is the original template that we also spring forth from.  
This pattern has been found in virtually every ancient civilization around the world; on the pyramids of ancient Egypt to China's Forbidden City and over 100 other locations on every continent.
It's been woven into the traditions, and secret doctrines of the world's largest religions and its principles form the basis of music, science, and art. Some have called it 'the fingerprint of the divine.' 
It has been passed down from generation to generation; at the risk of death in some cases, to ensure it survived. It is only recently, in this modern renaissance of global communication and technology, that this ancient knowledge is being reexamined and shared freely.  
This blueprint to reality is commonly called Sacred Geometry, and in this book, we will show that when we apply its principles to consciousness, we unmask all layers of identity and decode a blueprint for awareness that fits with the natural order. It offers the tools and understanding necessary to transcend and transform the limiting focus of our "local" or ego self and expand our lives into the most fulfilling experience possible. 













What is Sacred Geometry?
Sacred geometry is the study of the geometric principles and relationships found in nature. By studying the design of life, we better understand how to live in balance.

In nature, if you want the flower to bloom and the fruit to grow, you first start with the seed.  The Seed of Life begins with a single circle. Just like the moment of human conception begins with a single fertilized egg. 

The circle is said to be the perfect shape. It is symbolic of unity, completeness, and equality. Let's imagine that within this circle lies all that is. Everything. Everything in existence now, then and everything that will be. Past/present/future. Everything physical and nonphysical. Things known and unknown. All that is.  Now let's call this circle "consciousness." Further, let's imagine that this circle is not only aware of all that is but that it seeks to know itself. How could it do this if everything was contained within this circle?  

To do this, it moves to its edge and gives half of itself to form and expand another circle. By adding a second circle using the edge of the first one as the center point, we get what is commonly called the Vesica Piscis. Some may recognize it as a Venn Diagram. 



We have two circles that have both an aspect that is shared and an aspect that is not. This simple, first step contains so much knowledge about life that we have forgotten.  First, this first act is an act of love as it takes from itself to give experience and perspective to another. Life manifests from a place of balance, equality, and harmony.  Second, life is paradoxical, and a fixed perspective doesn't give you the whole picture. For life to flow and expand it must move beyond duality. 
If you were experiencing life at the edge of either circle, you might not realize that you were connected with the "other" center, but when you move to the center of both circles, there you find commonality and union. 
With this guiding principle, we move to one of the intersecting points of both circles, and we make that the center for expansion, pulling equally from both circles. Doing this creates the Trinity of Life.  

We now have three circles, and each circle individually has an aspect that is shared with both circles, an aspect that is only shared with one circle and an aspect that is independent of the other circles. If you focus only on the center portion that is shared by the three circles, you will find the symbol for the trinity that is on many bibles. This is also known as the Triquetra in Celtic traditions and hold symbolism for many three part or triune systems of belief or focus. 
Continue this process at four more times until we have six circles surrounding the initial center circle. It looks like this: 


With each progression of the seed of life, we add complexity as we expand our awareness to include new aspects of self and others until we arrive 'full circle' back to where we started. We have created a cohesive unit that contains multidimensional complexity and understanding. This is what the universe / source is doing through us. 


      The Seed of Life
This pattern is the foundation for Sacred Geometry and life itself. All matter that makes up physical reality shares this pattern as its foundation in form.  This is the basis for our consciousness, and it is a bridge to understanding and utilizing the energetic system of the body known as the chakras. The word chakra is Sanskrit for wheel, and there are seven main energy centers in the body, just as there are seven circles or "wheels" in the image above. Unifying this information is the beginning to our growth into our true nature of our expanded self. 
When we plant seeds in the earth they transform into plants that manifest flowers and fruits; likewise, in Sacred Geometry the Seed of Life turns into the Flower of Life when we continue repeating this same pattern by adding more circles to the outside until we expand it completely around all sides equally. We arrive at this, commonly called 'the Flower of Life,' the first expansion of the seed of life. 


   The Flower of Life 
In just this expansion of Sacred Geometry, we see the first fundamental truth that nature reveals. One circle expands into two equal circles. Two expand into six equal circles that create the seventh circle to complete the first full rotation. That creates the Seed of Life. Repeating that process and pattern creates the Flower of Life. 
For the purposes of this book, we will focus on consciousness in the Seed of Life model but let's take this to its completion for a greater understanding. From the Flower of Life, we expand by repeating the same process. This allows us to now change the focus of our perspective and by doing so, we reveal the Fruit of Life. 
                                        
                                     The Flower of Life                                    The Fruit of Life
The second truth Sacred Geometry reveals is that expansion allows us greater perspective by allowing us to focus on different aspects of our self. By focusing on the boundaries of the circles, we are able to see a projection of this symbol from the receptive / feminine form of the Flower of Life to the projective / masculine form of the Fruit of Life.
This shift in perspective allows us to see the following shapes known as the Platonic Solids. These shapes, named after Plato, are the building of matter as they make up elements on the periodic table. The platonic solids are



The platonic solids could very well be thought of as the fruits of life as they form the very fabric of life itself on a molecular and quantum level.  Plato associated each solid with an element of reality. He associated the earth with the cube, water with the icosohedron, fire with the tetrahedron, the air was symbolized by the octohedron, and the dodecahedron was associated with either or spirit. 
So far we have started with a seed, grew it into a flower, shifted perspective and 'discovered' the fruits. We need something to store our fruit in. If only we had a container. Luckily, Metatron in here to help carry all this home.


     Metatron's Cube
Metatron's Cube can be thought of as the container of Sacred Geometry as it contains all the connecting points of the totality of what we have covered here. It contains all of the building blocks of matter, the platonic solids. It is a fractal expansion of the basic pattern created with the Seed of Life. It is a sphere expanded to another sphere into another and so. The Seed of Life expanded and expanded again. 

What is Metatron's Cube?
The geometry of what we know refer to as Metatron's Cube was first discovered by Italian Mathematician Leonardo Pisano
According to legend, Metatron is considered an Arc Angel. While the name doesn't appear in the bible, it does appear in some Jewish texts.  He has been linked to Thoth, the Egyptian Scribe, Enoch, and Archangel Michael, just to name a few. 
While the figure above may appear complicated, it offers a very fundamental truth about the nature of reality and our self. To complete Metatron's Cube from the fruit of life, you simply have to draw a straight line between the centers of every circle. 
This is the universe's way of saying all are one, equal and joined in the heart. It reveals that life and indeed the whole world changes when you change the perspective. 
For example, ten people can be looking at Metatron's Cube and see ten different things. All ten things would be valid and correct. We lose this truth when we close our hearts to another's perspective.  Just as all of the platonic solids are necessary to create the reality we share, Metatron's Cube teaches us that every aspect of source is equal, has value and is necessary for all to be. 
For one to be, all must also be. For the all to be complete, each one must be. 
Sacred Geometry is such a deep field of study that it can expand from this very basic primer into art, fashion, music, anatomy, biology, all of life really. For the purpose of this book, we will focus on how this basic pattern is the container for consciousness itself. 
It is important to remember that these aspects are not unfolding and emerging linearly one after another, but simultaneously. Our individual focus shifts to where it is most needed in each one of us in the moment. The general focus is a progression in early childhood development and can be cyclical thereafter. 
This intention of this book and this information expressed is to be taken philosophically, not dogmatically.  It should never be used as a tool of force, in any capacity.

