The 2nd Expansion: The ME ASPECT
The Foundation of Mind and Emotion

The ME Aspect is the foundation of internal self. It is in the internal response system for the physical world. The letters M and E stand for Mind and Emotion as this is the energy expressed that gives rise to the Mind and is the energy that we direct through our emotional system.   

I AM INNER AWARENESS. I HAVE FEELING AND DESIRE. I AM UNIQUE

In ancient Vedic teachings, this aspect is associated with the ‘Svadhisthana’ chakra, which means ‘one’s own place’ in Sanskrit. It is symbolized by the color orange. This aspect is seated in our lower abdomen. It is associated with the testicles and ovaries of the reproductive system and the Limbic System of the brain or what is commonly called the “mammalian” brain.  

The ME self is all energy focused, accumulated and expressed related to the emotional self. This aspect of self is the source of what we refer to as “ego” and the storehouse for all emotional awareness. This is the accumulation of all energy spent in service and expansion of how one feels. It is the center of our unique identity as it is associated with the reproductive organs, which bear our personal genetic code. The ME Aspect generates energy related to sexuality as well as creativity. It is the place within us that desire springs forth and it generates the inner dialogue we have throughout our life. 

While much maligned, the concept of desire is simply to hold a preference about how something is or should be. All of life exhibits a preference for the unfolding of their existance. Just as the purpose of life is to expand, the intention of life is to expand in a way that is preferred. This is individuality at its most fundamental level. 

Just as physical safety is paramount to the Body Aspect, emotional safety is the first order of business for the ME Aspect. We first seek to protect our emotional expression and to give us the appropriate space and time to feel and process the external world.   Establishing and maintaining healthy and expansive emotional boundaries are paramount to our emotional safety. Healthy emotional boundaries are born out of a mutually beneficial and mutually respectful relationship. This is true both for our relationship with the outside world and all other beings we interact with.  

The ME Self analyses and directs the information coming in from all other aspects of self. This begins with the fact that we react emotionally to the external world is objective, how we react is our subjective truth and what makes us unique as no one processes their experience exactly the same.  

On a very basic level, we feel protective whenever life doesn’t show up how we expect. The reality of the experience is analyzed and the ME Self issues a judgment and a desire.  It determines either:

a) This is not what I want. I wish to change this. 
b) This is beneficial. I desire more of this.

Once safety is attained and the basic physical needs are met, the emotional self is central to our development and expansion as an individual. What do we do when life doesn’t show up as we desire? How we react in these moments determine the course of our lives more than any other factor because life is responding to us. 
As life shows up we analyze and react emotionally to what we perceive, this first happens within the internal ME aspect. As this constant input of energy is received, it must ultimately be balanced through analysis or it must be expressed.  
Balance is simply the state of being in general agreement with the focus of your life. It doesn’t always mean that you want or are in agreement with everything and everyone in the world or in your life. As we will see in with the Eternal aspect of self, there will always be a perception or judgment about an aspect of life that can be improved on.
Emotional energy is life force energy and emotional balance is what allows life to flow in harmony. As the geometry of life shows, life is designed to grow and expand in balance. 
Emotions are the guiding force of our total self-expression. An unbalanced emotional state leads to unbalanced actions which lead to less than ideal results. These results lead to less than ideal (or necessarily accurate) beliefs about the state of one’s self and one’s world.  This gets repeated and reinforced through focus as emotional energy is the fuel that drives both genius and madness. Nurture and neglect. It is awareness directed with passion and preference. 
The ME Self holds its awareness in and as our emotions.  When we are moved to action by anger or grief or tears of joy we are experiencing the ME Self. This is the source of our creative response to life. Our ME Self first and foremost regulates stress in the body. It analyses what is not desired with input from the other aspects of self. 
From the Body Aspect, it receives the raw data of our experience in real time. 
When this aspect is expanding, we are able to meet life openly. We have released the need to protect ourselves from others. 

Our sexuality and gender are also rooted in this inner aspect of our identity. 

