Expansion 1: The Body Aspect
The interface with the world of form

The first aspect of our identity that forms is the BODY ASPECT. This aspect begins with the awareness that we are physical, we have a body and through this body, we affect and are affected by the outer world. The Body aspect is all energy that is focused, expressed and related to the physical body and its appearance, maintenance, and continued survival. It is the accumulation of all energy spent in service, repair, and growth of our body, our body image, health issues and perceptions of the body in this world. 

I AM FORM.  I AFFECT REALITY, AND REALITY EFFECTS ME.

This aspect is associated with the ‘Mulhuddra’ chakra, which means ‘’root support” in Sanskrit. It is symbolized by the color red. This aspect is seated at the base of our tailbone and at the center of our feet. It is associated with the adrenal glands of the endocrine system.  

All experience is analyzed at this root level of awareness with this simple question; ‘ Is this experience beneficial to the continued survival of the physical self?’ Its programming is geared toward the creation, control and preservation of the physical body. Chief among its tools to ensure this survival is the flight/freeze/ fight response to what the body self perceives as harmful or non-beneficial experience. 
In this first aspect of self, we see the expansion principle that governs all of creation at work. From the single fertilized cell of an embryo to the vast, complex collection of roughly 70 – 100 trillion cells that make up the average human body; our inherent design is to assume form and expand it. 
It is through this medium of form that individual separation emerges out of all that is and allows us  interact and become a part of the physical environment. In our physical environment, we see this principle of form (or body) has manifested in all scales. From the atomic level to the largest celestial bodies in our heavens and everything in between – to be physical is to have awareness and identity of and in form. 
The body aspect is governed by the Autonomic Nervous System of the brain or what is commonly called the “reptilian” brain.  The Body Self holds its awareness in every cell of our being. This aspect expands and is dominant during our first year of life as our body and brain unify to grow and control the form we will occupy throughout our life.  It is no coincidence that most human babies begin to walk roughly around 1 year of age, give or take a few months as walking is our first culmination point of mastery of the Body. These first steps are key to expanding our Body Self as control of our body allows us to change the environment we find ourselves in.   
This aspect of our self can stop all other action of the self and redirect energy and focus in defense of our body when a threat to our safety is experienced. This aspect is deeply rooted in the now. It does this without having to command this consciously and in most cases, without our ability to stop it.
We expand our awareness of this aspect by listening to and providing what is needed by the body and by maintaining the form in a state of BALANCE. All of life strives for balance or stasis on all levels. Balance for the body aspect is physical safety and the continued ability to expand. Just as the foundation determines the stability of the entire house, the development and balance of this aspect determines the ability of the other aspects of our identity to expand into full manifestation. 
We can best provide for the body when we listen to its needs. On a very real and basic level we are made up of nature and have evolved in nature. We obviously need air to survive but we thrive when we expand our exposure to all the elements of nature. This is done first and foremost by the fuel we put into our bodies. To the BODY SELF food is nothing more than fuel. It is sunlight captured and stored by the Earth via plants and animals and converted into energy in our bodies. The most effective fuel is what is most important to the Body Self. 
Water and sunlight are critical to the maintenance of our bodies as well as exposure to the Earth’s magnetism. This means putting feet on Earth for a few minutes each day to restore this connection to the world we live in.  Spending time in nature awakens the nature within us. When we make the Body Self fully conscious, we instantly understand what the body wants and needs to thrive in our environment and be the most ideal vehicle for our experience in this life.  
As we balance our own personal needs, we can begin to express this security out into the world of form. We express this as we band together with others in the form of family. We project this energy out into further security and comfort for us and those we are closest to. This is the expansion principle at work as we desire to protect and secure those we love. 
We can all remember a time when heard a noise or entered an environment that scared us and this aspect of our self took over. All thought and mental activity instantly refocuses on the environment. Blood in the body is redirected to the extremities and powerful chemicals like adrenaline is pumped through the blood stream. This is the Body Self in action and brought into full awareness. 
As this aspect is balanced and the body is protected and cared for, the need to constrict energy from developing is no longer necessary. We begin to feel secure in our environment. We are able to expand our focus to the next aspect in the Seed of Self. 
The fact that there are “others” here that share our experience and space and affect our well-being opens the expansion of our identity from strictly an outer experience to inner non-physical experience. Our experience as the Body Self forces us to FEEL via the input we receive from it.   We are more than our body self; we have an inner energy as well and we can go within. 
There is form to all relationships, regardless of how seemingly trivial or inconsequential. We find our identity in each other as much as our selves. As we expand into the form of this book, we will detail how the aspects interact and how this first aspect of our identity is crucial to the development of all others. Unbalanced or incomplete development of the Body Self can limits our focus and expansion overall.
Life in the physical world is an experience in polarity. Our Body Self is an exterior or projective aspect that we use to move through the outer world, the second aspect to develop is the ME Self.  

